I'm a vegetarian and i'm kinda
small and i am a meat eater and
I'm pretty big but in the rest
of the animal kingdom it's just
the opposite
hey guys Julia and trace here
for dnews take a look across the
African savannah and you'll see
massive animals like 16
elephants in 1.4 ton giraffes
you lonely spot a few top
predators like 350-pound lions
and a hundred sixty pound
cheetahs the top five largest
land animals on the planet are
all plant-eaters why are so many
herbivores so much larger than
carnivores
well some researchers think it's
an evolutionary advantage it's
harder to take down an elephant
if you're just one lion that's
why they have almost no natural
predators or maybe it's what
they eat some researchers think
herbivores grow so big so their
stomachs have more room to
digest the massive amount of
plant material that they need to
survive and that plant material
is actually really healthy for
them it's where the most energy
is as you move up the food chain
from producers like plants to
consumers like herbivores and
carnivores energy conservation
gets lost
this is in line with the second
law of thermodynamics Matthew
Lewis Senior Program Officer for
African species conservation at
the World Wildlife Fund says
there's a ten percent loss of
energy at each stage for moved
from France but it's hard work
to get all the nutrients they
need out of plants so many plant
eaters have to spend most of
their day eating plants
elephants for example between
200 and 600 pounds of food a day
and we'll spend up to 18 hours
just eating that's a lot of time
being
sounds okay my college even the
evolution of big plant eaters
takes a while
according to a study published
in the journal Proceedings of
the National Academy of Sciences
it takes 24 million generations
for an animal to get really
large over the past 70 million
years
the authors conclude that since
it takes so much time to get big
earth isn't likely to see
another animal like the elephant
as long as humans remain the
dominant species the way
predators hunt will also affect
their size according to a study
published in PLoS ONE hunters
typically travel large distances
to find their prey the hunt
includes an intense chase and
take down all of these things
take enormous amounts of energy
so the ratio of energy intake
and expenditure constrains large
predator sighs the researchers
found that a big carnivore can't
get any bigger than one
time one of the lead authors
said carnivores because of the
cost of hunting can never
achieve the sizes and intake
rate of prey of the largest
herbivores other researchers
believe it's the way predators
are built that might limit their
size animals that exclusively
eat meat like cats for example
need to have a flexed limb
stance in order to pounce on
their prey a bigger body like
something over 440 pounds
wouldn't support something like
that stance a small female
giraffe good way
seventeen hundred and sixty
pounds while a large male lion
might only way around 400 pounds
so meat-eater the size of an
elephant just not be an
efficient predator this supports
an early idea from a colleges
paul collins bow who believes
that a predator has to expend a
lot of energy hunting down their
food so having a large body to
support would be cumbersome that
is why he believes think fierce
animals are rare and they're
rare in other ways too is we
mentioned earlier there's often
more prey than predators in an
ecosystem
this is an evolutionary
advantage to keep populations in
check if you have too many
predators the wind up gobbling
all their food up and then they
won't have any more and they'll
start a big animals to conserve
its energy for the next meal
mostly by sleeping so the best
predator is rare not too big and
kind of lazy sounds like a kitty
we're kinda like me so how big
do you think humans can get to
find out that answer
check out this video right here
the reason we don't just keep
getting larger is we actually
have to live in the world
gravity is constantly pulling us
down requiring our bodies to
create bones which counteract
that forced to hold us up
are you really big vegetarian or
like a really small carnivores
let us know down in the comments
and keep coming back here every
day for more dnews see you next
time
me too wanna go grab a burger
the veggie burger